readme.md, before:

# Chess Engine Project

## Overview
This project is an implementation of a chess engine using Python-chess and Flask. It provides a local server that allows you to play chess against an AI opponent.

## Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.x
- Flask
- Python-chess
- 3-4-5 moves Syzygy table bases
- Komodo Polyglot opening book

### Installation
1. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/plewanda/chess.git
```
2. Navigate to the project directory
```
cd chess
```
3. Install the dependencies
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Download the 3-4-5 moves Syzygy table bases and add them to `resources/tablebases/3-4-5`.
5. Download the Komodo Polyglot opening book and add `komodo.bin` file to `resources`.

## Usage 
To start the server, run the following command:
```
python app.py
```
Then, open your preferred web browser and visit `http://localhost:5000` to start playing.

## Chess Piece Images
Chess piece images are stored in the `static/img/chesspieces/wikipedia` directory. The file naming convention is `{color (b/w)}{piece type (B/K/N/P/Q/R)}`. For example, the black king piece image would be named `bK.png`.

Please ensure that you have all necessary images in the correct format and in the specified directory.

## Contributing 
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

## Acknowledgements
- Python-chess for providing the chess logic
- Flask for providing the web server framework

Commit message:

add some simple bots, simulation

readme.md, after:

# Chess Engine Project

## Overview
This project is an implementation of a chess engine using Python-chess and Flask. It provides a local server that allows you to play chess against an AI opponent.

## Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.x
- Flask
- Python-chess
- 3-4-5 moves Syzygy table bases
- Komodo Polyglot opening book

### Installation
1. Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/plewanda/chess.git
```
2. Navigate to the project directory
```
cd chess
```
3. Install the dependencies
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
4. Download the 3-4-5 moves Syzygy table bases and add them to `resources/tablebases/3-4-5`.
5. Download the Komodo Polyglot opening book and add `komodo.bin` file to `resources`.

## Usage 
To start the server, run the following command:
```
python app.py
```
Then, open your preferred web browser and visit `http://localhost:5000` to start playing.

## Bots fight simulation

This project also includes a Python file `simulate.py`. This file is used to simulate a match between two bots, `bot_v7` and `bot_v6` (the two latest bot iterations), playing chess against each other.

It uses a loop to simulate 100 matches between the two bots. In each iteration, it alternates which bot is playing as white and which is playing as black. 

To start the simulation, run the following command:
```
python simulate.py
```
You will see the results of each game and the cumulative scores printed out in your terminal.

## Chess Piece Images
Chess piece images are stored in the `static/img/chesspieces/wikipedia` directory. The file naming convention is `{color (b/w)}{piece type (B/K/N/P/Q/R)}`. For example, the black king piece image would be named `bK.png`.

Please ensure that you have all necessary images in the correct format and in the specified directory.

## Contributing 
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License
[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

## Acknowledgements
- Python-chess for providing the chess logic
- Flask for providing the web server framework
